#Improvements

#Engagement
One of the possible issues in Open Source Software Development is engagement in the project. Commercial development have several mechanisms to ensure the stability of the project, like interface specifications, plans and habits regarding how things are done{{"mockus2002two" | cite}}. Communication can be a substitute for most of these mechanisms, although the "communication-only" is not scalable. The stability of the project engage the participants of the project and ensure a proper end-product. Extrinsic motivation, like money, reputation and peer pressure, can also boost the engagement in the project.  
Open Source Software Development does not always have this stucture to build on. Most contributors in OSSD act based on  intrinsic motivation{{"bitzer2007intrinsic" | cite}}{{"roberts2006understanding" | cite}}, like gaining experience, being part of the community or doing it for fun. This type of motivation does not garuantee engagement, but does improve the mental condition while participating and higher quality performance, due to the lack of outside pressure{{"ryan2000intrinsic" | cite}}{{"10.2307/1449618" | cite}}.

Still, OSSD has some ways to engage the contributors/developers in the process of software-development. One way, like *Netbeans.org*, is the distribution of "management" positions that are limited to coordination roles{{"jensen2005collaboration" | cite}}. The task of is to determine and announce what needs to be done and wait for volunteers to accept responsibility. This method gives structure without controlling the development process.  
Another way is enabling quality control in a project. Thanks to peer review and quick feedback loops, contributors can get a lot of respons on the cod s/he produced. This constant communication between contributors and community drives the contributors to develop better quality code{{"von2012carrots" | cite}}. Thus, code-checking volunteers and contributors can be actively engaged in the quality of the code by giving/reacting to feedback. 
